packages/spotlight/docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Spotlight
---


1. [What Is Spotlight?](#what-is-spotlight)
2. [Modes](#modes)
3. [Navigation](#navigation)
4. [Selectors](#selectors)
5. [SpotlightRootDecorator](#spotlightrootdecorator)
6. [Spottable](#spottable)
7. [Containers](#containers)
8. [Events](#events)
9. [Spotlight API](#spotlight-api)
10. [HOC Parameters and Properties](#hoc-parameters-and-properties)
11. [Examples](#examples)

## What Is Spotlight?

Spotlight is an extensible utility that enables users to navigate
applications using a keyboard or television remote control.  Responding to input
from the **UP**, **DOWN**, **LEFT**, **RIGHT**, and **RETURN** keys, Spotlight
provides a navigation experience that compares favorably to that of a
computer-with-mouse.

It was developed for use with the [Enact JavaScript framework](http://enactjs.com), but is useful as a standalone
library.

Spotlight is based on a fork of [JavaScript SpatialNavigation](https://github.com/luke-chang/js-spatial-navigation)
(c) 2016 Luke Chang, under the terms of the [Mozilla Public License](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/).

## Modes

Spotlight operates in two mutually exclusive modes: **5-way mode** and **Pointer
mode**.  By default, Spotlight is configured to switch between these modes
whenever suitable input is received--i.e.: it switches to pointer mode on
`mousemove` and back to 5-way mode on `keydown`.

## Navigation

Spotlight enables navigation between controls by assigning focus to one control
at a time.  Focus-enabled controls are considered to be "spottable". These spottable
controls take on the CSS class `.spottable`, which allow focused controls to be styled
on a per-kind basis using `.<kindClass>.spottable:focus` selectors.

Spotlight uses the native HTML DOM `focus` method to assign focus to controls. Form
elements can gain focus by default, but Spotlight designates a `tabindex` value to its
controls, meaning even a simple `div` can be a spottable control.

When an application loads, Spotlight will initially spot the first spottable
control. If a control has been programmatically spotted via `Spotlight.focus(element)`
immediately after being rendered, that control will be spotted instead.

In 5-way mode, Spotlight uses an algorithm to determine which spottable control
is the nearest one in the direction of navigation.  The coordinates of a
spottable control are derived from its actual position on the screen.

It's worth noting that spottable controls may be found on different hierarchical
levels of a component tree.  Spotlight facilitates seamless navigation
among the topmost spottable components found in the tree.

Spottable controls can receive `onSpotlight[Direction]` properties to handle custom
navigation actions.  This is mainly a convenience function used for preventing natural
5-way behavior and setting focus on specific spottable components that may not normally
be in the next component to be spotted.

```javascript
handleSpotlightDown = (e) => {
	e.preventDefault();
	e.stopPropagation();
	Spotlight.focus('[data-component-id="myButton"]');
}
```
```jsx harmony
<Button data-component-id='myButton'>Source Button</Button>
<Button onSpotlightDown={this.handleSpotlightDown}>Target Button</Button>
```

## Selectors

Spotlight identifies spottable controls via selectors. A selector can be any of the
following types:
- a valid selector string for `querySelectorAll`
- a NodeList or an array containing DOM elements
- a single DOM element
- a string `'@<containerId>'` to indicate the specified container
- the string `'@'` to indicate the default container

There may be times where it is preferable to specify a selector instead of relying on a reference to an element
or `@<containerId>`. Each time a Spottable control receives focus via 5-way or pointer navigation, Spotlight updates
its cache of available Spottable controls. So for example, if your container DOM is updated programmatically, followed
by the need to set focus on a newly-created default Spottable control, you will be unable to spot the control by
calling focus on the container.

```javascript
Spotlight.focus('container-name');
```

Be default, Spotlight will not always update its cache of available Spottable controls when simply attempting to
set focus. This is done for performance reasons. Instead, you can supply a `querySelector` string that will allow
Spotlight to parse the selector, re-indexing the available Spottable controls.

```javascript
Spotlight.focus('[data-container-id="container-name"] .spottable');
```

## SpotlightRootDecorator
The `SpotlightRootDecorator` is a top-level HOC (Higher Order Component) that is
required to use Spotlight. It is responsible for initializing the Spotlight instance
and managing navigation event listeners.

To use Spotlight in an application, simply import and wrap the `SpotlightRootDecorator`
HOC around your application view:

```javascript
import ApplicationView from './ApplicationView';
import SpotlightRootDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightRootDecorator';
const App = SpotlightRootDecorator(ApplicationView);
```

It's worth noting that `@enact/moonstone` applications include `SpotlightRootDecorator`
by default in its `MoonstoneDecorator` HOC.

## Spottable

In order to make a control focus-enabled (or "spottable") with Spotlight, simply
wrap your base control with the `Spottable` HOC, like so:

```javascript
    import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';
    import Component from './Component';
    const SpottableComponent = Spottable(Component);
```

## Containers

In order to organize controls into navigation groups, we have created Spotlight
containers.

A good example of how containers should be used is a set of radio buttons that
must be navigable separately from the rest of the app's controls.

When a Spotlight container is focused, it passes the focus to its own configurable
hierarchy of spottable child controls--specifically, to the last spottable child to
hold focus before the focus moved outside of the container.  If the container in
question has never been focused, it passes focus to its first spottable child.

To define a container, wrap your base control with the `SpotlightContainerDecorator`
HOC:

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator(kind({
	name: 'Container',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<div {...props}>
				{/* A list of spottable controls */}
			</div>
		);
	}
}));
```

In a way, containers may be thought of as the branches--and spottable controls
as the leaves--of the Spotlight navigation tree.

A `spotlightDisabled` property may be applied to the container to temporarily disable the specified container's
spottable controls:

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator('div');
const App = kind({
	name: 'App',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<Container {...props} spotlightDisabled>
				{/* A list of spottable controls */}
			</Container>
		);
	}
});
```


## Events

Spotlight uses native DOM events to navigate the available spottable controls and does not
directly dispatch synthetic events to the currently spotted control.

To determine if spotlight is the cause of a specific spotted control's key event, you can
validate the native `target` property of the key event against `document.activeElement`.


## Spotlight API

In order to use the Spotlight API, simply import Spotlight into your application and call
any of its available methods to manipulate how your application responds to navigation
events.

```javascript
import Spotlight from '@enact/spotlight';
```

#### `Spotlight.pause()`
Temporarily pauses Spotlight until `resume()` is called.

#### `Spotlight.resume()`
Resumes Spotlight navigation.

#### `Spotlight.focus([containerId/selector])`
+ `containerId/selector`: (optional) String / Selector (without @ syntax)

Dispatches focus to the specified containerId or the first spottable child that
matches `selector`. This method has no effect if Spotlight is paused.

#### `Spotlight.move(direction, [selector])`
+ `direction`: `'left'`, `'right'`, `'up'` or `'down'`
+ `selector`: (optional) Selector (without @ syntax)

Moves focus in the specified direction of `selector`. If `selector` is not specified,
Spotlight will move in the given direction of the currently spotted control.

## HOC Parameters And Properties

##### Spotlight HOC Parameters

Parameters in the form of an object can be passed as an initial argument to a HOC when creating a
Spotlight control. In these cases, the HOC parameter should remain static and unchanged in the
life-cycle of the control.

```javascript
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';
// spottable control that doesn't emit `onClick` events when pressing the enter key
const Control = Spottable({emulateMouse: false}, 'div');
```

##### Spotlight HOC Properties

Spotlight HOCs are able to use properties that are passed to them via parent controls. These properties
are passed like in any other Enact component.

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';

const SpottableComponent = Spottable('div');
const App = kind({
	render: () => (<SpottableComponent spotlightDisabled />)
});
```

### Spottable

##### Parameters

`emulateMouse`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `true`

Whether or not the component should emulate mouse events as a response to Spotlight 5-way events.

##### Properties
`spotlightDisabled`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

May be added to temporarily make a control not spottable.

`onSpotlightLeft`
`onSpotlightRight`
`onSpotlightUp`
`onSpotlightDown`
+ Type: [function]

A callback function to override default spotlight behavior when exiting the spottable control.

`onSpotlightDisappear`
+ Type: [function]

A callback function to be called when the component is removed while retaining focus.

### Container

##### Parameters

`defaultElement`
+ Type: [string|string[]]
+ Default: `'.spottable-default'`

The selector for the default spottable element within the container. When an array of selectors is
provided, the first selector that successfully matches a node is used.

`enterTo`
+ Type: [string]
+ Values: [`''`, `'last-focused'`, or `'default-element'`]
+ Default: `''`

If the focus originates from another container, you can define which element in
this container receives focus first.

`preserveId`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

Whether the container will preserve the id when it unmounts.

#### Properties

`containerId`
+ Type: [string]

Specifies the container id. If the value is `null`, an id will be generated.

`spotlightDisabled`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

When `true`, controls in the container cannot be navigated.

`spotlightMuted`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

Whether or not the container is in muted mode. When in muted mode, Spottable controls within the container
can still gain focus, however their `:focus` CSS styles will not be applied, giving them the appearance
of not having focus. Muting a container is generally done to temporarily disable CSS changes and
default `onFocus` and `onBlur` events without removing focus from the container itself - which would
happen if you disabled the container using `spotlightDisabled`.

`spotlightRestrict`
+ Type: [string]
+ Values: [`'none'`, `'self-first'`, or `'self-only'`]
+ Default: `'none'`

Restricts or prioritizes focus to the controls in the current container.

```javascript
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
import Component from './Component';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator({enterTo: 'last-focused', restrict: 'self-only'}, Component);
```

## Examples

#### Basic usage

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightRootDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightRootDecorator';
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';

const SpottableComponent = Spottable(kind({
	name: 'SpottableComponent',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<div {...props} />
		);
	}
}));

const App = SpotlightRootDecorator(kind({
	name: 'SpotlightRootDecorator',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<SpottableComponent {...props} />
		);
	}
}));
```

Commit message:

ENYO-5145: Set 5-way mode when initializing. (#1818)
* Set 5-way mode when initializing.

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Hailey Ryu <hangyeolryu@lge.com>:

* Set 5-way mode when initializing.

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Hailey Ryu <hangyeolryu@lge.com>:

* Set 5-way mode when initializing.

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Hailey Ryu <hangyeolryu@lge.com>:

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Hailey Ryu <hangyeolryu@lge.com>:

* delete

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Refactored the fix.

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Hailey Ryu <hangyeolryu@lge.com>:

* delete dup

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* remove package log

Signed-off-by: Ryan Duffy <ryan.duffy@lge.com>

* update changelog

Signed-off-by: Ryan Duffy <ryan.duffy@lge.com>

* Add default mode to docs

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Roy Sutton roy.sutton@lge.com

* Add default mode to docs

Enact-DCO-1.0-Signed-off-by: Roy Sutton roy.sutton@lge.com

packages/spotlight/docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Spotlight
---


1. [What Is Spotlight?](#what-is-spotlight)
2. [Modes](#modes)
3. [Navigation](#navigation)
4. [Selectors](#selectors)
5. [SpotlightRootDecorator](#spotlightrootdecorator)
6. [Spottable](#spottable)
7. [Containers](#containers)
8. [Events](#events)
9. [Spotlight API](#spotlight-api)
10. [HOC Parameters and Properties](#hoc-parameters-and-properties)
11. [Examples](#examples)

## What Is Spotlight?

Spotlight is an extensible utility that enables users to navigate
applications using a keyboard or television remote control.  Responding to input
from the **UP**, **DOWN**, **LEFT**, **RIGHT**, and **RETURN** keys, Spotlight
provides a navigation experience that compares favorably to that of a
computer-with-mouse.

It was developed for use with the [Enact JavaScript framework](http://enactjs.com), but is useful as a standalone
library.

Spotlight is based on a fork of [JavaScript SpatialNavigation](https://github.com/luke-chang/js-spatial-navigation)
(c) 2016 Luke Chang, under the terms of the [Mozilla Public License](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/).

## Modes

Spotlight operates in two mutually exclusive modes: **5-way mode** and **Pointer
mode**.  By default, Spotlight is configured to switch between these modes
whenever suitable input is received--i.e.: it switches to pointer mode on
`mousemove` and back to 5-way mode on `keydown`.

Spotlight initializes in 5-way mode. On webOS, the platform's current pointer mode is used instead.

## Navigation

Spotlight enables navigation between controls by assigning focus to one control
at a time.  Focus-enabled controls are considered to be "spottable". These spottable
controls take on the CSS class `.spottable`, which allow focused controls to be styled
on a per-kind basis using `.<kindClass>.spottable:focus` selectors.

Spotlight uses the native HTML DOM `focus` method to assign focus to controls. Form
elements can gain focus by default, but Spotlight designates a `tabindex` value to its
controls, meaning even a simple `div` can be a spottable control.

When an application loads, Spotlight will initially spot the first spottable
control. If a control has been programmatically spotted via `Spotlight.focus(element)`
immediately after being rendered, that control will be spotted instead.

In 5-way mode, Spotlight uses an algorithm to determine which spottable control
is the nearest one in the direction of navigation.  The coordinates of a
spottable control are derived from its actual position on the screen.

It's worth noting that spottable controls may be found on different hierarchical
levels of a component tree.  Spotlight facilitates seamless navigation
among the topmost spottable components found in the tree.

Spottable controls can receive `onSpotlight[Direction]` properties to handle custom
navigation actions.  This is mainly a convenience function used for preventing natural
5-way behavior and setting focus on specific spottable components that may not normally
be in the next component to be spotted.

```javascript
handleSpotlightDown = (e) => {
	e.preventDefault();
	e.stopPropagation();
	Spotlight.focus('[data-component-id="myButton"]');
}
```
```jsx harmony
<Button data-component-id='myButton'>Source Button</Button>
<Button onSpotlightDown={this.handleSpotlightDown}>Target Button</Button>
```

## Selectors

Spotlight identifies spottable controls via selectors. A selector can be any of the
following types:
- a valid selector string for `querySelectorAll`
- a NodeList or an array containing DOM elements
- a single DOM element
- a string `'@<containerId>'` to indicate the specified container
- the string `'@'` to indicate the default container

There may be times where it is preferable to specify a selector instead of relying on a reference to an element
or `@<containerId>`. Each time a Spottable control receives focus via 5-way or pointer navigation, Spotlight updates
its cache of available Spottable controls. So for example, if your container DOM is updated programmatically, followed
by the need to set focus on a newly-created default Spottable control, you will be unable to spot the control by
calling focus on the container.

```javascript
Spotlight.focus('container-name');
```

Be default, Spotlight will not always update its cache of available Spottable controls when simply attempting to
set focus. This is done for performance reasons. Instead, you can supply a `querySelector` string that will allow
Spotlight to parse the selector, re-indexing the available Spottable controls.

```javascript
Spotlight.focus('[data-container-id="container-name"] .spottable');
```

## SpotlightRootDecorator
The `SpotlightRootDecorator` is a top-level HOC (Higher Order Component) that is
required to use Spotlight. It is responsible for initializing the Spotlight instance
and managing navigation event listeners.

To use Spotlight in an application, simply import and wrap the `SpotlightRootDecorator`
HOC around your application view:

```javascript
import ApplicationView from './ApplicationView';
import SpotlightRootDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightRootDecorator';
const App = SpotlightRootDecorator(ApplicationView);
```

It's worth noting that `@enact/moonstone` applications include `SpotlightRootDecorator`
by default in its `MoonstoneDecorator` HOC.

## Spottable

In order to make a control focus-enabled (or "spottable") with Spotlight, simply
wrap your base control with the `Spottable` HOC, like so:

```javascript
    import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';
    import Component from './Component';
    const SpottableComponent = Spottable(Component);
```

## Containers

In order to organize controls into navigation groups, we have created Spotlight
containers.

A good example of how containers should be used is a set of radio buttons that
must be navigable separately from the rest of the app's controls.

When a Spotlight container is focused, it passes the focus to its own configurable
hierarchy of spottable child controls--specifically, to the last spottable child to
hold focus before the focus moved outside of the container.  If the container in
question has never been focused, it passes focus to its first spottable child.

To define a container, wrap your base control with the `SpotlightContainerDecorator`
HOC:

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator(kind({
	name: 'Container',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<div {...props}>
				{/* A list of spottable controls */}
			</div>
		);
	}
}));
```

In a way, containers may be thought of as the branches--and spottable controls
as the leaves--of the Spotlight navigation tree.

A `spotlightDisabled` property may be applied to the container to temporarily disable the specified container's
spottable controls:

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator('div');
const App = kind({
	name: 'App',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<Container {...props} spotlightDisabled>
				{/* A list of spottable controls */}
			</Container>
		);
	}
});
```


## Events

Spotlight uses native DOM events to navigate the available spottable controls and does not
directly dispatch synthetic events to the currently spotted control.

To determine if spotlight is the cause of a specific spotted control's key event, you can
validate the native `target` property of the key event against `document.activeElement`.


## Spotlight API

In order to use the Spotlight API, simply import Spotlight into your application and call
any of its available methods to manipulate how your application responds to navigation
events.

```javascript
import Spotlight from '@enact/spotlight';
```

#### `Spotlight.pause()`
Temporarily pauses Spotlight until `resume()` is called.

#### `Spotlight.resume()`
Resumes Spotlight navigation.

#### `Spotlight.focus([containerId/selector])`
+ `containerId/selector`: (optional) String / Selector (without @ syntax)

Dispatches focus to the specified containerId or the first spottable child that
matches `selector`. This method has no effect if Spotlight is paused.

#### `Spotlight.move(direction, [selector])`
+ `direction`: `'left'`, `'right'`, `'up'` or `'down'`
+ `selector`: (optional) Selector (without @ syntax)

Moves focus in the specified direction of `selector`. If `selector` is not specified,
Spotlight will move in the given direction of the currently spotted control.

## HOC Parameters And Properties

##### Spotlight HOC Parameters

Parameters in the form of an object can be passed as an initial argument to a HOC when creating a
Spotlight control. In these cases, the HOC parameter should remain static and unchanged in the
life-cycle of the control.

```javascript
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';
// spottable control that doesn't emit `onClick` events when pressing the enter key
const Control = Spottable({emulateMouse: false}, 'div');
```

##### Spotlight HOC Properties

Spotlight HOCs are able to use properties that are passed to them via parent controls. These properties
are passed like in any other Enact component.

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';

const SpottableComponent = Spottable('div');
const App = kind({
	render: () => (<SpottableComponent spotlightDisabled />)
});
```

### Spottable

##### Parameters

`emulateMouse`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `true`

Whether or not the component should emulate mouse events as a response to Spotlight 5-way events.

##### Properties
`spotlightDisabled`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

May be added to temporarily make a control not spottable.

`onSpotlightLeft`
`onSpotlightRight`
`onSpotlightUp`
`onSpotlightDown`
+ Type: [function]

A callback function to override default spotlight behavior when exiting the spottable control.

`onSpotlightDisappear`
+ Type: [function]

A callback function to be called when the component is removed while retaining focus.

### Container

##### Parameters

`defaultElement`
+ Type: [string|string[]]
+ Default: `'.spottable-default'`

The selector for the default spottable element within the container. When an array of selectors is
provided, the first selector that successfully matches a node is used.

`enterTo`
+ Type: [string]
+ Values: [`''`, `'last-focused'`, or `'default-element'`]
+ Default: `''`

If the focus originates from another container, you can define which element in
this container receives focus first.

`preserveId`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

Whether the container will preserve the id when it unmounts.

#### Properties

`containerId`
+ Type: [string]

Specifies the container id. If the value is `null`, an id will be generated.

`spotlightDisabled`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

When `true`, controls in the container cannot be navigated.

`spotlightMuted`
+ Type: [boolean]
+ Default: `false`

Whether or not the container is in muted mode. When in muted mode, Spottable controls within the container
can still gain focus, however their `:focus` CSS styles will not be applied, giving them the appearance
of not having focus. Muting a container is generally done to temporarily disable CSS changes and
default `onFocus` and `onBlur` events without removing focus from the container itself - which would
happen if you disabled the container using `spotlightDisabled`.

`spotlightRestrict`
+ Type: [string]
+ Values: [`'none'`, `'self-first'`, or `'self-only'`]
+ Default: `'none'`

Restricts or prioritizes focus to the controls in the current container.

```javascript
import SpotlightContainerDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightContainerDecorator';
import Component from './Component';
const Container = SpotlightContainerDecorator({enterTo: 'last-focused', restrict: 'self-only'}, Component);
```

## Examples

#### Basic usage

```javascript
import kind from '@enact/core/kind';
import SpotlightRootDecorator from '@enact/spotlight/SpotlightRootDecorator';
import Spottable from '@enact/spotlight/Spottable';

const SpottableComponent = Spottable(kind({
	name: 'SpottableComponent',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<div {...props} />
		);
	}
}));

const App = SpotlightRootDecorator(kind({
	name: 'SpotlightRootDecorator',
	render: (props) => {
		return (
			<SpottableComponent {...props} />
		);
	}
}));
```
