Museo Sans Font License

Terms and Conditions for Use, Reproduction and Distribution

1.  Definitions.

“License” shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution of the Font Software as defined herein. "You" (or "Your") shall
mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising rights and assuming obligations
granted by this License.

“LGSVL” shall mean LG Silicon Valley Lab, Division of Zenith Electronics, LLC.

“Font Software” shall mean certain Font Software designs created by exljibris
“Font Foundry (ELJ” or Licensor”) and licensed to LGSVL (with sublicense rights)
“for implementation into consumer electronics products, applications, devices,
“and other LG interactive products.

“Enact Applications” shall mean applications developed using the Enact JavaScript
“application framework

2.  Grant of License.  LGSVL grants you a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable,
non- sublicensable, worldwide, fully paid-up license to use, reproduce, use,
make use, display and distribute an unlimited number of units of the Font
Software for the sole purpose of implementation into an unlimited number of
units of Enact Applications pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

3.  Embedding.  You may embed the Font Software in Enact Applications either as a
rasterized representation of the Font Software or as a subset of the Font
Software so long as the Font Software as embedded in applications, products or
devices is distributed in a secure format that permits only the viewing, but not
the editing of the Fonts.

4.  Back-up.  You may make back-up copies of the Font Software solely for
archival purposes, provided that exclusive custody and control is retained over
such copies.

5.  Modifications.  Except as granted herein, you may not modify, reverse
engineer, decompile, disassemble, alter, or attempt to discover the source code
of the Font Software.

6.  Restrictions.  This license is restricted for use with Enact Applications

7.  Ownership.  All copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property
rights in the Font Software belong exclusively to ELJ and are protected by U.S.
copyright laws, the copyright and design laws of other nations, and by
international treaties.   You shall obtain no ownership rights in the Font
Software pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.

8.  Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California, without regard to its conflict of laws provisions.  Each party
agrees that any action or proceeding initiated by either party in connection
with this Agreement shall be heard exclusively in state or federal courts
located in Santa Clara County, California.

9.  Disclaimer of Warranty.  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, Licensor provides the Font Software on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including,
without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible
for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Font Software
and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this
License.

10. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in
writing, shall LGSVL or Licensor be liable to You for damages, including any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character
arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
Font Software (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work
stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all   other commercial
damages or losses), even if LGSVL or Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such damages.

